Alma 6 / アルマ書 6

[Summary / 要約]
EN: The Church in Zarahemla is cleansed and set in order—Alma goes to Gideon to preach. About 83 B.C.
JA: ゼラヘムラの教会は清められ、整えられる。アルマ、教えを説くためにギデオンへ行く。紀元前約八十三年。

1
EN: And now it came to pass that after Alma had made an end of speaking unto the people of the church, which was established in the city of Zarahemla, he ordained priests and elders, by laying on his hands according to the order of God, to preside and watch over the church.
JA: さて、アルマはゼラヘムラの町に設けられた教会の人々に語り終えると、神の位に従って、按手により、教会を管理し見守る祭司たちと長老たちを聖任した。

2
EN: And it came to pass that whosoever did not belong to the church who repented of their sins were baptized unto repentance, and were received into the church.
JA: そして、教会に属していない者たちの中で、罪を悔い改めた者は、悔い改めのためのバプテスマを受け、教会に受け入れられた。

3
EN: And it also came to pass that whosoever did belong to the church that did not repent of their wickedness and humble themselves before God—I mean those who were lifted up in the pride of their hearts—the same were rejected, and their names were blotted out, that their names were not numbered among those of the righteous.
JA: そして、教会に属していながら自分の悪事を悔い改めず、神の前にへりくだらない者、すなわち高慢な心で高ぶる者はだれであろうと、拒まれて、その名は消され、彼らの名は義人の中に数えられなかった。

4
EN: And thus they began to establish the order of the church in the city of Zarahemla.
JA: このようにして祭司たちと長老たちは、ゼラヘムラの町で教会の秩序を確立するようになった。

5
EN: Now I would that ye should understand that the word of God was liberal unto all, that none were deprived of the privilege of assembling themselves together to hear the word of God.
JA: さて、あなたがたは神の言葉がすべての人に自由に与えられたこと、神の言葉を聞くために集会をする特権が、だれからも奪われなかったことを理解してほしい。

6
EN: Nevertheless the children of God were commanded that they should gather themselves together oft, and join in fasting and mighty prayer in behalf of the welfare of the souls of those who knew not God.
JA: それでも神の子たちは、しばしば集まって、神を知らない者たちの幸いのためにともに断食し、熱烈に祈るように命じられた。

7
EN: And now it came to pass that when Alma had made these regulations he departed from them, yea, from the church which was in the city of Zarahemla, and went over upon the east of the river Sidon, into the valley of Gideon, there having been a city built, which was called the city of Gideon, which was in the valley that was called Gideon, being called after the man who was slain by the hand of Nehor with the sword.
JA: さて、アルマはこのように整え終えると、彼らのもとを、まことに、ゼラヘムラの町にある教会を去り、シドン川の東に渡ってギデオンの谷へ行った。ニーホルの手によって剣で殺された、ギデオンの名にちなんで名付けられたこの谷には、ギデオンの町という一つの町があった。

8
EN: And Alma went and began to declare the word of God unto the church which was established in the valley of Gideon, according to the revelation of the truth of the word which had been spoken by his fathers, and according to the spirit of prophecy which was in him, according to the testimony of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, who should come to redeem his people from their sins, and the holy order by which he was called. And thus it is written. Amen.
JA: そして、アルマはそこへ行き、彼の先祖が語った言葉が真実であることを告げる啓示に従って、また彼の内にある預言の霊に従って、さらに、御自分の民を罪から贖うために来られる神の御子イエス・キリストの証と、彼が召された聖なる位によって、ギデオンの谷に設けられている教会に神の言葉を宣言した。書き記されているのは以上のとおりである。アーメン。
