Alma 16 / アルマ書 16

[Summary / 要約]
EN: The Lamanites destroy the people of Ammonihah—Zoram leads the Nephites to victory over the Lamanites—Alma and Amulek and many others preach the word—They teach that after His Resurrection Christ will appear to the Nephites. About 81–77 B.C.
JA: レーマン人、アモナイハの民を滅ぼす。ゾーラム、ニーファイ人を率いてレーマン人に勝利を得る。アルマとアミュレクとそのほか多くの人、御言葉を宣べ伝え、キリストが復活後にニーファイ人に御自身を現されることを教える。紀元前約八十一年から七十七年に至る。

1
EN: And it came to pass in the eleventh year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi, on the fifth day of the second month, there having been much peace in the land of Zarahemla, there having been no wars nor contentions for a certain number of years, even until the fifth day of the second month in the eleventh year, there was a cry of war heard throughout the land.
JA: さて、ゼラヘムラの地は非常に平和であり、ニーファイの民のさばきつかさの統治第十一年二月五日までの数年の間、戦争もなければ争いもなかった。ところが、第十一年の二月五日に、全地で戦争を告げる叫びが聞かれた。

2
EN: For behold, the armies of the Lamanites had come in upon the wilderness side, into the borders of the land, even into the city of Ammonihah, and began to slay the people and destroy the city.
JA: 見よ、レーマン人の軍隊がすでに荒れ野の方から境の地に侵入してアモナイハの町に入り、民を殺して町を破壊し始めたからである。

3
EN: And now it came to pass, before the Nephites could raise a sufficient army to drive them out of the land, they had destroyed the people who were in the city of Ammonihah, and also some around the borders of Noah, and taken others captive into the wilderness.
JA: そして、ニーファイ人がレーマン人をその地から追い払うに足る軍隊を起こす前に、レーマン人はアモナイハの町にいた人々を殺し、ノアの地の境付近でもかなりの人々を殺し、また残りの人々を捕らえて荒れ野へ連れ去ってしまった。

4
EN: Now it came to pass that the Nephites were desirous to obtain those who had been carried away captive into the wilderness.
JA: そこでニーファイ人は、囚われの身となって荒れ野に連れ去られた人々を取り戻したいと思った。

5
EN: Therefore, he that had been appointed chief captain over the armies of the Nephites, (and his name was Zoram, and he had two sons, Lehi and Aha)—now Zoram and his two sons, knowing that Alma was high priest over the church, and having heard that he had the spirit of prophecy, therefore they went unto him and desired of him to know whither the Lord would that they should go into the wilderness in search of their brethren, who had been taken captive by the Lamanites.
JA: そのため、ニーファイ人の軍隊を指揮する司令官に任命された人（その名はゾーラムといい、彼には二人の息子、リーハイとエーハがいた）、すなわち、ゾーラムと彼の二人の息子は、アルマが教会を管理する大祭司であることを知っており、またアルマが預言の霊を受けていることも聞いて知っていたので、彼のもとを訪れ、レーマン人に捕らえられた同胞を捜すのに、主は自分たちが荒れ野のどこへ行くのを望んでおられるか知りたいと彼に告げた。

6
EN: And it came to pass that Alma inquired of the Lord concerning the matter. And Alma returned and said unto them: Behold, the Lamanites will cross the river Sidon in the south wilderness, away up beyond the borders of the land of Manti. And behold there shall ye meet them, on the east of the river Sidon, and there the Lord will deliver unto thee thy brethren who have been taken captive by the Lamanites.
JA: そこでアルマは、その件について主に尋ねた。それから戻って来ると、彼らに言った。「見よ、レーマン人はマンタイの地の境のはるか向こうにある南の荒れ野でシドン川を渡るでしょう。見よ、あなたがたはシドン川の東側で彼らを迎えて戦いなさい。そうすれば主はあなたがたに、レーマン人に捕らえられた同胞を渡されます。」

7
EN: And it came to pass that Zoram and his sons crossed over the river Sidon, with their armies, and marched away beyond the borders of Manti into the south wilderness, which was on the east side of the river Sidon.
JA: そこで、ゾーラムと息子たちは、軍隊を率いてシドン川を渡り、マンタイの地の境を越えて、シドン川の東側に当たる南の荒れ野まで進軍した。

8
EN: And they came upon the armies of the Lamanites, and the Lamanites were scattered and driven into the wilderness; and they took their brethren who had been taken captive by the Lamanites, and there was not one soul of them had been lost that were taken captive. And they were brought by their brethren to possess their own lands.
JA: そして彼らは、レーマン人の軍隊に攻めかかり、レーマン人を散り散りに荒れ野の中へ追い払った。このようにして彼らは、レーマン人に捕らえられていた同胞を取り戻した。しかも、捕らえられていた同胞は一人も失われていなかった。そして彼らは、同胞に連れられて、それぞれの土地に帰った。

9
EN: And thus ended the eleventh year of the judges, the Lamanites having been driven out of the land, and the people of Ammonihah were destroyed; yea, every living soul of the Ammonihahites was destroyed, and also their great city, which they said God could not destroy, because of its greatness.
JA: このようにして、さばきつかさの統治第十一年が終わった。レーマン人はすでにその地から追い払われ、アモナイハの民は滅びた。まことに、アモナイハ人はことごとく殺され、非常に大きいので神でも破壊できないと彼らが述べた、その大きな町もまた滅びた。

10
EN: But behold, in one day it was left desolate; and the carcasses were mangled by dogs and wild beasts of the wilderness.
JA: 見よ、その町は一日で荒れ廃れた所となり、しかばねは犬と荒れ野の野獣に食い裂かれてしまった。

11
EN: Nevertheless, after many days their dead bodies were heaped up upon the face of the earth, and they were covered with a shallow covering. And now so great was the scent thereof that the people did not go in to possess the land of Ammonihah for many years. And it was called Desolation of Nehors; for they were of the profession of Nehor, who were slain; and their lands remained desolate.
JA: それでも多くの日の後、彼らの死体は地の面に積み上げられ、薄く土がかけられた。しかし、そのにおいがとてもひどかったので、長年の間、アモナイハの地に来てそこを所有しようとする者はいなかった。そして、その土地は「ニーホル人の廃虚」と呼ばれた。それは、そこで殺された者たちがニーホルの教団に属し、彼らの地が荒れ廃れたままであったからである。

12
EN: And the Lamanites did not come again to war against the Nephites until the fourteenth year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi. And thus for three years did the people of Nephi have continual peace in all the land.
JA: ニーファイの民のさばきつかさの統治第十四年まで、レーマン人は再びやって来てニーファイ人と戦うことをしなかった。このようにして三年間、ニーファイの民は引き続き全地に平和を保った。

13
EN: And Alma and Amulek went forth preaching repentance to the people in their temples, and in their sanctuaries, and also in their synagogues, which were built after the manner of the Jews.
JA: そして、アルマとアミュレクは出て行って、ユダヤ人に倣って建てられた神殿や聖堂や会堂で、民に悔い改めを宣べ伝えた。

14
EN: And as many as would hear their words, unto them they did impart the word of God, without any respect of persons, continually.
JA: そして彼らは、自分たちの言葉を聞こうとするすべての人に、偏り見ることなく、絶えず神の言葉を告げた。

15
EN: And thus did Alma and Amulek go forth, and also many more who had been chosen for the work, to preach the word throughout all the land. And the establishment of the church became general throughout the land, in all the region round about, among all the people of the Nephites.
JA: このように、アルマとアミュレクと、その務めを果たすように選ばれたさらに多くの人は、全地に御言葉を宣べ伝えるために出て行った。そして全地で、すなわち周辺のすべての地方で、ニーファイ人に属するすべての人の中に広く教会が設立されるようになった。

16
EN: And there was no inequality among them; the Lord did pour out his Spirit on all the face of the land to prepare the minds of the children of men, or to prepare their hearts to receive the word which should be taught among them at the time of his coming—
JA: また、教会員の中には少しの不平等もなかった。主は人の子らの心を備えさせるために、すなわち、主の来臨の時に、彼らの中で教えられる御言葉を受け入れるように彼らの心を備えさせるために、その地の全面に主の御霊を注がれた。

17
EN: That they might not be hardened against the word, that they might not be unbelieving, and go on to destruction, but that they might receive the word with joy, and as a branch be grafted into the true vine, that they might enter into the rest of the Lord their God.
JA: 彼らが御言葉に対してかたくなになることがなく、また不信仰になって滅亡に至ることもなく、むしろ喜んで御言葉を受け入れて、一つの枝としてまことのぶどうの木に接がれ、主なる彼らの神の安息に入れるようにするためである。

18
EN: Now those priests who did go forth among the people did preach against all lyings, and deceivings, and envyings, and strifes, and malice, and revilings, and stealing, robbing, plundering, murdering, committing adultery, and all manner of lasciviousness, crying that these things ought not so to be—
JA: さて、民の中に出て行ったその祭司たちは、あらゆる偽りと欺き、ねたみ、争い、悪意、ののしり、盗み、強盗、略奪、殺人、姦淫、およびあらゆる好色を責める教えを説き、これらのことを行ってはならないと訴えた。

19
EN: Holding forth things which must shortly come; yea, holding forth the coming of the Son of God, his sufferings and death, and also the resurrection of the dead.
JA: そして彼らは、間もなく必ず起こること、まことに、神の御子の来臨と、御子のお受けになる苦しみと死、死者の復活について説いた。

20
EN: And many of the people did inquire concerning the place where the Son of God should come; and they were taught that he would appear unto them after his resurrection; and this the people did hear with great joy and gladness.
JA: それで多くの人は、神の御子が来られる場所について尋ね、神の御子が復活後にこの民に御自身を現されるということを教わった。そして人々は、これを聞いて非常に喜んだ。

21
EN: And now after the church had been established throughout all the land—having got the victory over the devil, and the word of God being preached in its purity in all the land, and the Lord pouring out his blessings upon the people—thus ended the fourteenth year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi.
JA: このように、教会が全地に設立され、悪魔に勝利し、神の言葉が純粋なままに国中に宣べ伝えられて、主は人々に祝福を注がれた。このようにして、ニーファイの民のさばきつかさの統治第十四年が終わった。
