Alma 52 / アルマ書 52

[Summary / 要約]
EN: Ammoron succeeds Amalickiah as king of the Lamanites—Moroni, Teancum, and Lehi lead the Nephites in a victorious war against the Lamanites—The city of Mulek is retaken, and Jacob the Zoramite is slain. About 66–64 B.C.
JA: アモロン、アマリキヤの跡を継いでレーマン人の王となる。モロナイとテアンクムとリーハイ、ニーファイ人を率いて戦い、レーマン人に勝利を得る。ミュレクの町は取り返され、ゾーラム人ヤコブは死ぬ。紀元前約六十六年から六十四年に至る。

1
EN: And now, it came to pass in the twenty and sixth year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi, behold, when the Lamanites awoke on the first morning of the first month, behold, they found Amalickiah was dead in his own tent; and they also saw that Teancum was ready to give them battle on that day.
JA: さて、ニーファイの民のさばきつかさの統治第二十六年の一月一日の朝、見よ、レーマン人は目を覚まし、見よ、アマリキヤが彼の天幕の中で死んでいるのを発見した。また彼らは、テアンクムがその日彼らと戦う準備をしているのも見た。

2
EN: And now, when the Lamanites saw this they were affrighted; and they abandoned their design in marching into the land northward, and retreated with all their army into the city of Mulek, and sought protection in their fortifications.
JA: レーマン人はこれを見て驚き恐れ、北方の地へ進軍する企てを捨てて、全軍がミュレクの町へ退き、とりでにこもって守りを固めようとした。

3
EN: And it came to pass that the brother of Amalickiah was appointed king over the people; and his name was Ammoron; thus king Ammoron, the brother of king Amalickiah, was appointed to reign in his stead.
JA: そして、アマリキヤの兄弟が民を治める王に選ばれた。その王の名はアモロンという。このようにアマリキヤ王の兄弟であるアモロン王が選ばれ、アマリキヤ王に代わって治めることになった。

4
EN: And it came to pass that he did command that his people should maintain those cities, which they had taken by the shedding of blood; for they had not taken any cities save they had lost much blood.
JA: そしてアモロン王は、血を流して奪い取ったそれらの町を守り通すように民に命じた。彼らが多くの血を失わずに奪い取った町は一つとしてなかったからである。

5
EN: And now, Teancum saw that the Lamanites were determined to maintain those cities which they had taken, and those parts of the land which they had obtained possession of; and also seeing the enormity of their number, Teancum thought it was not expedient that he should attempt to attack them in their forts.
JA: さて、テアンクムは、レーマン人がこれまでに奪い取ったそれらの町と、手に入れたそれらの土地を守り通そうと決意しているのを知り、また彼らの人数がおびただしいのを見て、とりでにこもっている彼らを攻撃しようとするのは得策ではないと思った。

6
EN: But he kept his men round about, as if making preparations for war; yea, and truly he was preparing to defend himself against them, by casting up walls round about and preparing places of resort.
JA: それでも彼は、戦う準備をしているかのように、兵をとりでの近くにとどめておいた。そして、実際はその間に方々に防壁を築き、身を隠す場所を用意して、レーマン人の来襲を防ぐ準備を進めていた。

7
EN: And it came to pass that he kept thus preparing for war until Moroni had sent a large number of men to strengthen his army.
JA: そして、彼が戦いの準備を続けていると、やがてモロナイからテアンクムの軍隊を強化する大勢の兵が送られてきた。

8
EN: And Moroni also sent orders unto him that he should retain all the prisoners who fell into his hands; for as the Lamanites had taken many prisoners, that he should retain all the prisoners of the Lamanites as a ransom for those whom the Lamanites had taken.
JA: また、モロナイからテアンクムに、彼の手に落ちた捕虜は全員そのまま捕らえておくようにとの命令も届いた。レーマン人も大勢を捕虜にしていたので、レーマン人に捕らえられている人々と交換するために、レーマン人の捕虜を全員残しておく必要があったからである。

9
EN: And he also sent orders unto him that he should fortify the land Bountiful, and secure the narrow pass which led into the land northward, lest the Lamanites should obtain that point and should have power to harass them on every side.
JA: モロナイはまた、バウンティフルの地の防備を固めて北方の地に通じる地峡を守り、レーマン人がその地点に達して四方からニーファイ人を攻め悩ます力を持たないようにすることをテアンクムに命じた。

10
EN: And Moroni also sent unto him, desiring him that he would be faithful in maintaining that quarter of the land, and that he would seek every opportunity to scourge the Lamanites in that quarter, as much as was in his power, that perhaps he might take again by stratagem or some other way those cities which had been taken out of their hands; and that he also would fortify and strengthen the cities round about, which had not fallen into the hands of the Lamanites.
JA: さらにモロナイは彼に伝言を送り、忠実にその地域を守るように、またニーファイ人の手から奪い取られたそれらの町を、計略やそのほかの方法で再び取り返すことができるかもしれないので、できるかぎりあらゆる機会を求めてその地域でレーマン人を苦しめ悩ますように、さらに、レーマン人の手に落ちていない方々の町を防備を固めて強化するように求めた。

11
EN: And he also said unto him, I would come unto you, but behold, the Lamanites are upon us in the borders of the land by the west sea; and behold, I go against them, therefore I cannot come unto you.
JA: また、モロナイは彼に、「わたしはあなたのところに行きたいが、まことにレーマン人が西の海に近い境の地でわたしたちを攻めて来ており、まことに、わたしは彼らに立ち向かっているので、あなたのところへは行けない」とも述べた。

12
EN: Now, the king (Ammoron) had departed out of the land of Zarahemla, and had made known unto the queen concerning the death of his brother, and had gathered together a large number of men, and had marched forth against the Nephites on the borders by the west sea.
JA: さて、（アモロン）王はゼラヘムラの地を去って、王妃に自分の兄弟の死について知らせ、大勢の兵を集めて、西の海に近い境の地でニーファイ人と戦うために軍隊を進めていた。

13
EN: And thus he was endeavoring to harass the Nephites, and to draw away a part of their forces to that part of the land, while he had commanded those whom he had left to possess the cities which he had taken, that they should also harass the Nephites on the borders by the east sea, and should take possession of their lands as much as it was in their power, according to the power of their armies.
JA: このようにして、彼はニーファイ人を休みなく攻めて、その地域にニーファイ人の軍の一部を引き寄せるようにした。その一方で、彼は以前に奪い取った町を守るために残してきた者たちにも、東の海に近い境の地でニーファイ人を休みなく攻め、兵力の及ぶかぎりできるだけニーファイ人の地を占領するように命じておいた。

14
EN: And thus were the Nephites in those dangerous circumstances in the ending of the twenty and sixth year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi.
JA: ニーファイの民のさばきつかさの統治第二十六年の終わりに、ニーファイ人はこのような危うい状況にあった。

15
EN: But behold, it came to pass in the twenty and seventh year of the reign of the judges, that Teancum, by the command of Moroni—who had established armies to protect the south and the west borders of the land, and had begun his march towards the land Bountiful, that he might assist Teancum with his men in retaking the cities which they had lost—
JA: しかし見よ、さばきつかさの統治第二十七年には、モロナイは南と西の境を守る軍隊の組織を終え、以前に失った町をテアンクムと彼の兵が取り返すのを助けるために、バウンティフルの地へ軍隊を進めた。

16
EN: And it came to pass that Teancum had received orders to make an attack upon the city of Mulek, and retake it if it were possible.
JA: さて、テアンクムは、ミュレクの町に攻撃を加えて、できればそこを取り返すようにという命令を受けていた。

17
EN: And it came to pass that Teancum made preparations to make an attack upon the city of Mulek, and march forth with his army against the Lamanites; but he saw that it was impossible that he could overpower them while they were in their fortifications; therefore he abandoned his designs and returned again to the city Bountiful, to wait for the coming of Moroni, that he might receive strength to his army.
JA: そこでテアンクムは、ミュレクの町に攻撃を加える準備をし、軍隊を率いてレーマン人に攻めかかる準備を整えた。しかし、レーマン人がとりでの中にいる間は打ち負かせないことを知ったので、その計画を断念し、バウンティフルの町に引き返してモロナイの到着を待ち、軍隊を増強することにした。

18
EN: And it came to pass that Moroni did arrive with his army at the land of Bountiful, in the latter end of the twenty and seventh year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi.
JA: そして、ニーファイの民のさばきつかさの統治第二十七年の末に、モロナイが軍隊を率いてバウンティフルの地に到着した。

19
EN: And in the commencement of the twenty and eighth year, Moroni and Teancum and many of the chief captains held a council of war—what they should do to cause the Lamanites to come out against them to battle; or that they might by some means flatter them out of their strongholds, that they might gain advantage over them and take again the city of Mulek.
JA: また、第二十八年の初めに、モロナイとテアンクムと多くの連隊長たちが作戦会議を開き、レーマン人を外に出して戦わせるにはどうすればよいか、また何らかの方法で彼らをとりでから誘い出し、彼らより優位に立って再びミュレクの町を取り返すにはどうすればよいかを協議した。

20
EN: And it came to pass they sent embassies to the army of the Lamanites, which protected the city of Mulek, to their leader, whose name was Jacob, desiring him that he would come out with his armies to meet them upon the plains between the two cities. But behold, Jacob, who was a Zoramite, would not come out with his army to meet them upon the plains.
JA: そして彼らは、ミュレクの町を守っているレーマン人の軍隊に、すなわちヤコブという名の彼らの指揮官に使者を送り、軍隊を率いて出て来て二つの町の間の平原で戦いを交えるように求めた。しかし見よ、ゾーラム人であったヤコブは、軍隊を率いて出て来て平原で戦いを交えようとはしなかった。

21
EN: And it came to pass that Moroni, having no hopes of meeting them upon fair grounds, therefore, he resolved upon a plan that he might decoy the Lamanites out of their strongholds.
JA: そこでモロナイは、対等の条件で彼らと戦いを交える望みを失ったため、策を用いてレーマン人をとりでから誘い出すことにした。

22
EN: Therefore he caused that Teancum should take a small number of men and march down near the seashore; and Moroni and his army, by night, marched in the wilderness, on the west of the city Mulek; and thus, on the morrow, when the guards of the Lamanites had discovered Teancum, they ran and told it unto Jacob, their leader.
JA: 彼はテアンクムに少数の兵を連れて海岸の近くを下って行かせた。また、モロナイと彼の軍隊は夜に紛れてミュレクの町の西方の荒れ野に進軍した。するとその翌朝、レーマン人の見張りの兵たちがテアンクムを見つけ、走って行って、そのことを自分たちの指揮官であるヤコブに知らせた。

23
EN: And it came to pass that the armies of the Lamanites did march forth against Teancum, supposing by their numbers to overpower Teancum because of the smallness of his numbers. And as Teancum saw the armies of the Lamanites coming out against him he began to retreat down by the seashore, northward.
JA: そして、レーマン人の軍隊は、テアンクムの兵の数が少なかったので自分たちの手勢で打ち負かせると思い、テアンクムに向かって進んで行った。そこでテアンクムは、レーマン人の軍隊が自分に向かって出て来たのを見て、海岸の近くを北方に退却し始めた。

24
EN: And it came to pass that when the Lamanites saw that he began to flee, they took courage and pursued them with vigor. And while Teancum was thus leading away the Lamanites who were pursuing them in vain, behold, Moroni commanded that a part of his army who were with him should march forth into the city, and take possession of it.
JA: さて、レーマン人は、彼が逃げ出したのを見て勇み立ち、勢いよく彼らを追った。また、テアンクムが無駄な追跡をして来るレーマン人をこのように誘い出している間に、見よ、モロナイは自分が率いていた軍の一部に、町に入ってそこを占領するように命じた。

25
EN: And thus they did, and slew all those who had been left to protect the city, yea, all those who would not yield up their weapons of war.
JA: そこで彼らは、町に入ってそこを占領し、町を守るために残っていたすべての者、すなわち武器を引き渡そうとしないすべての者を殺した。

26
EN: And thus Moroni had obtained possession of the city Mulek with a part of his army, while he marched with the remainder to meet the Lamanites when they should return from the pursuit of Teancum.
JA: このようにしてモロナイは、自分の軍の一部をもってミュレクの町を手に入れるとともに、自分はテアンクムの追跡から戻って来るレーマン人と戦いを交えるために、残りの兵を率いて進軍した。

27
EN: And it came to pass that the Lamanites did pursue Teancum until they came near the city Bountiful, and then they were met by Lehi and a small army, which had been left to protect the city Bountiful.
JA: さて、レーマン人はテアンクムを追跡し、ついにバウンティフルの町の近くまでやって来た。そして、彼らはそこで、バウンティフルの町を守るために残っていたリーハイと少数の軍隊に出会った。

28
EN: And now behold, when the chief captains of the Lamanites had beheld Lehi with his army coming against them, they fled in much confusion, lest perhaps they should not obtain the city Mulek before Lehi should overtake them; for they were wearied because of their march, and the men of Lehi were fresh.
JA: さて見よ、レーマン人の連隊長たちは、リーハイが彼の軍隊を率いて向かって来るのを見たとき、自分たちがミュレクの町に帰り着く前にリーハイに追いつかれるのではないかと大慌てで逃げ出した。彼らは行軍のために疲れているのに、リーハイの兵たちは元気であったからである。

29
EN: Now the Lamanites did not know that Moroni had been in their rear with his army; and all they feared was Lehi and his men.
JA: さて、このときレーマン人は、モロナイが彼の軍隊を率いて彼らの後方に迫っていたのを知らず、ただリーハイとその兵だけを恐れていた。

30
EN: Now Lehi was not desirous to overtake them till they should meet Moroni and his army.
JA: ところでリーハイは、モロナイとその軍隊に出会うまで、彼らに追いつこうとしなかった。

31
EN: And it came to pass that before the Lamanites had retreated far they were surrounded by the Nephites, by the men of Moroni on one hand, and the men of Lehi on the other, all of whom were fresh and full of strength; but the Lamanites were wearied because of their long march.
JA: そしてレーマン人は、遠くへ退く前にニーファイ人に取り囲まれてしまった。一方にはモロナイの兵、もう一方にはリーハイの兵がいて、どちらも皆、元気で力に満ちあふれていた。それに引き替え、レーマン人は長い行軍で疲れ切っていた。

32
EN: And Moroni commanded his men that they should fall upon them until they had given up their weapons of war.
JA: そこで、モロナイは兵に、彼らが武器を引き渡すまで攻撃を続けるように命じた。

33
EN: And it came to pass that Jacob, being their leader, being also a Zoramite, and having an unconquerable spirit, he led the Lamanites forth to battle with exceeding fury against Moroni.
JA: さて、レーマン人の指揮官ヤコブはゾーラム人であり、不屈の精神を持っていたので、レーマン人を率いてモロナイに向かって猛烈な戦いを仕掛けてきた。

34
EN: Moroni being in their course of march, therefore Jacob was determined to slay them and cut his way through to the city of Mulek. But behold, Moroni and his men were more powerful; therefore they did not give way before the Lamanites.
JA: モロナイがレーマン人の行く手を遮っていたので、ヤコブはモロナイの兵を殺し、道を切り開いてミュレクの町へ帰ろうと決意したのであった。しかし見よ、モロナイとその兵の方が強く、レーマン人に道を譲らなかった。

35
EN: And it came to pass that they fought on both hands with exceeding fury; and there were many slain on both sides; yea, and Moroni was wounded and Jacob was killed.
JA: そして彼らは、どちらも非常に激しく戦った。そして、双方ともに多くの者が殺され、モロナイは負傷し、ヤコブは死んだ。

36
EN: And Lehi pressed upon their rear with such fury with his strong men, that the Lamanites in the rear delivered up their weapons of war; and the remainder of them, being much confused, knew not whither to go or to strike.
JA: また、リーハイが屈強な兵を率いて激しくレーマン人の後方を攻め立てたので、後方のレーマン人は武器を引き渡した。また残りの者たちもひどくうろたえ、どこへ行けばよいのか、どこを攻めればよいのか分からない有様であった。

37
EN: Now Moroni seeing their confusion, he said unto them: If ye will bring forth your weapons of war and deliver them up, behold we will forbear shedding your blood.
JA: それでモロナイは、彼らがうろたえているのを見て、「もし武器を持って進み出て、それを引き渡すならば、見よ、おまえたちの血を流すのをやめよう」と彼らに告げた。

38
EN: And it came to pass that when the Lamanites had heard these words, their chief captains, all those who were not slain, came forth and threw down their weapons of war at the feet of Moroni, and also commanded their men that they should do the same.
JA: さて、レーマン人がこの言葉を聞くと、まだ殺されていないその連隊長たちは皆進み出て、武器をモロナイの足もとに投げ出し、兵たちにも同じようにすることを命じた。

39
EN: But behold, there were many that would not; and those who would not deliver up their swords were taken and bound, and their weapons of war were taken from them, and they were compelled to march with their brethren forth into the land Bountiful.
JA: しかし見よ、そうすることを望まない者も多かった。そこで、剣を引き渡そうとしない者たちは捕らえられて縛られ、武器を取り上げられた。そして、彼らの仲間とともにバウンティフルの地へ引っ立てられて行った。

40
EN: And now the number of prisoners who were taken exceeded more than the number of those who had been slain, yea, more than those who had been slain on both sides.
JA: 捕らえられた捕虜の人数は、殺された者の数よりも、まことに両軍の殺された者の数よりも多かった。
