Mosiah 6 / モーサヤ書 6

[Summary / 要約]
EN: King Benjamin records the names of the people and appoints priests to teach them—Mosiah reigns as a righteous king. About 124–121 B.C.
JA: ベニヤミン王、民の名を記録し、彼らを教える祭司たちを任命する。モーサヤ、義にかなった王として統治する。紀元前約百二十四年から百二十一年に至る。

1
EN: And now, king Benjamin thought it was expedient, after having finished speaking to the people, that he should take the names of all those who had entered into a covenant with God to keep his commandments.
JA: さて、ベニヤミン王は民に語り終えると、神の戒めを守るという聖約を神と交わしたすべての人の名を書き留めておく方がよいと思った。

2
EN: And it came to pass that there was not one soul, except it were little children, but who had entered into the covenant and had taken upon them the name of Christ.
JA: そこで民は、幼い子供を除いて一人残らず聖約を交わし、キリストの名を受けた。

3
EN: And again, it came to pass that when king Benjamin had made an end of all these things, and had consecrated his son Mosiah to be a ruler and a king over his people, and had given him all the charges concerning the kingdom, and also had appointed priests to teach the people, that thereby they might hear and know the commandments of God, and to stir them up in remembrance of the oath which they had made, he dismissed the multitude, and they returned, every one, according to their families, to their own houses.
JA: そして、さらにベニヤミン王は、これらのことをすべて終えると、息子モーサヤを聖別して民の統治者とし、王とし、王国に関する一切の責任を彼にゆだねた。また、民を教える祭司たちも任命した。人々が神の戒めを聞いて知ることができるように、またすでに立てた誓いを思い起こすように促すためである。その後、ベニヤミン王は群衆を解散させた。そこで民は、それぞれ家族ごとに各自の家へ帰って行った。

4
EN: And Mosiah began to reign in his father’s stead. And he began to reign in the thirtieth year of his age, making in the whole, about four hundred and seventy-six years from the time that Lehi left Jerusalem.
JA: そして、モーサヤが父に代わって統治を始めた。モーサヤが統治を始めたのは三十歳の年であり、リーハイがエルサレムを去ってからおよそ四百七十六年後のことになる。

5
EN: And king Benjamin lived three years and he died.
JA: そしてベニヤミン王は、その後三年生き長らえて死んだ。

6
EN: And it came to pass that king Mosiah did walk in the ways of the Lord, and did observe his judgments and his statutes, and did keep his commandments in all things whatsoever he commanded him.
JA: さて、モーサヤ王は主の道を歩み、主の掟と裁決を守り、主から命じられたすべてのことについて主の戒めを守った。

7
EN: And king Mosiah did cause his people that they should till the earth. And he also, himself, did till the earth, that thereby he might not become burdensome to his people, that he might do according to that which his father had done in all things. And there was no contention among all his people for the space of three years.
JA: またモーサヤ王は、民に地を耕させた。そして、彼自身も地を耕して、民に負担をかけることのないようにし、すべてのことについて、父の行ったとおりに行おうとした。そして三年間、民の中にはまったく争いがなかった。
