Mosiah 18 / モーサヤ書 18

[Summary / 要約]
EN: Alma preaches in private—He sets forth the covenant of baptism and baptizes at the waters of Mormon—He organizes the Church of Christ and ordains priests—They support themselves and teach the people—Alma and his people flee from King Noah into the wilderness. About 147–145 B.C.
JA: アルマ、ひそかに教えを説く。バプテスマの聖約を宣言し、モルモンの泉でバプテスマを施す。キリストの教会を設立し、祭司たちを聖任する。祭司たち、自活し、民を教える。アルマと彼の民、ノア王から逃れ、荒れ野に旅立つ。紀元前約百四十七年から百四十五年に至る。

1
EN: And now, it came to pass that Alma, who had fled from the servants of king Noah, repented of his sins and iniquities, and went about privately among the people, and began to teach the words of Abinadi—
JA: さて、ノア王の召し使いたちから逃れたアルマは、自分の罪と不義を悔い改め、人々の中をひそかに巡って、アビナダイの言葉を教え始めた。

2
EN: Yea, concerning that which was to come, and also concerning the resurrection of the dead, and the redemption of the people, which was to be brought to pass through the power, and sufferings, and death of Christ, and his resurrection and ascension into heaven.
JA: まことに、将来起こる事柄について、また死者の復活について、そしてキリストの力や受難、死、復活、昇天によってもたらされる人々の贖いについて、教え始めた。

3
EN: And as many as would hear his word he did teach. And he taught them privately, that it might not come to the knowledge of the king. And many did believe his words.
JA: そしてアルマは、自分の言葉を聞こうとする人々すべてに教えた。彼は王に知られることのないように、ひそかに教えた。そして、多くの人がアルマの言葉を信じた。

4
EN: And it came to pass that as many as did believe him did go forth to a place which was called Mormon, having received its name from the king, being in the borders of the land having been infested, by times or at seasons, by wild beasts.
JA: そして、アルマの語ったことを信じた人々は皆、モルモンと呼ばれた地へ行った。そこは王がその名を付けた所で、境の地にあり、時節によっては野獣が群れを成していた所である。

5
EN: Now, there was in Mormon a fountain of pure water, and Alma resorted thither, there being near the water a thicket of small trees, where he did hide himself in the daytime from the searches of the king.
JA: さて、モルモンには水の清らかな泉があり、アルマはそこへ行った。そこには、泉の近くに小さな木の茂みがあり、彼は日中そこに身を隠して王の捜索から逃れた。

6
EN: And it came to pass that as many as believed him went thither to hear his words.
JA: そして、アルマの語ったことを信じた人々は皆、彼の言葉を聞くためにそこへ行った。

7
EN: And it came to pass after many days there were a goodly number gathered together at the place of Mormon, to hear the words of Alma. Yea, all were gathered together that believed on his word, to hear him. And he did teach them, and did preach unto them repentance, and redemption, and faith on the Lord.
JA: さて、多くの日の後、アルマの言葉を聞くためにモルモンの地に集まった人々は、相当な数に上った。まことに、彼の言葉を信じた人々は皆、彼の語ることを聞くために集まった。そこで彼は、これらの人々を教え、悔い改めと贖いと主を信じる信仰とを説いた。

8
EN: And it came to pass that he said unto them: Behold, here are the waters of Mormon (for thus were they called) and now, as ye are desirous to come into the fold of God, and to be called his people, and are willing to bear one another’s burdens, that they may be light;
JA: そして、アルマは言った。「見よ、ここにモルモンの泉がある。（この泉はこのように呼ばれていた。）あなたがたは神の羊の群れに入って、神の民と呼ばれたいと願っており、重荷が軽くなるように、互いに重荷を負い合うことを望み、

9
EN: Yea, and are willing to mourn with those that mourn; yea, and comfort those that stand in need of comfort, and to stand as witnesses of God at all times and in all things, and in all places that ye may be in, even until death, that ye may be redeemed of God, and be numbered with those of the first resurrection, that ye may have eternal life—
JA: また、悲しむ者とともに悲しみ、慰めの要る者を慰めることを望み、また神に贖われ、第一の復活にあずかる人々とともに数えられて永遠の命を得られるように、いつでも、どのようなことについても、どのような所にいても、死に至るまでも神の証人になることを望んでいる。

10
EN: Now I say unto you, if this be the desire of your hearts, what have you against being baptized in the name of the Lord, as a witness before him that ye have entered into a covenant with him, that ye will serve him and keep his commandments, that he may pour out his Spirit more abundantly upon you?
JA: まことに、わたしはあなたがたに言う。あなたがたが心からこれを望んでいるのであれば、主からますます豊かに御霊を注いでいただけるように、主に仕えて主の戒めを守るという聖約を主と交わした証拠として、主の御名によってバプテスマを受けるのに何の差し支えがあろうか。」

11
EN: And now when the people had heard these words, they clapped their hands for joy, and exclaimed: This is the desire of our hearts.
JA: 人々はこの言葉を聞くと手をたたいて喜び、「それこそわたしたちが心から望んでいることです」と叫んだ。

12
EN: And now it came to pass that Alma took Helam, he being one of the first, and went and stood forth in the water, and cried, saying: O Lord, pour out thy Spirit upon thy servant, that he may do this work with holiness of heart.
JA: さて、アルマは、最初この地にやって来た人々の一人であるヘラムを連れて水の中に立ち、祈り願って言った。「おお、主よ、あなたの僕が聖い心でこの務めを果たせるように、僕にあなたの御霊を注いでください。」

13
EN: And when he had said these words, the Spirit of the Lord was upon him, and he said: Helam, I baptize thee, having authority from the Almighty God, as a testimony that ye have entered into a covenant to serve him until you are dead as to the mortal body; and may the Spirit of the Lord be poured out upon you; and may he grant unto you eternal life, through the redemption of Christ, whom he has prepared from the foundation of the world.
JA: そして彼がこの言葉を語ったとき、主の御霊が彼のうえにあった。そこで彼は言った。「ヘラム、わたしは全能の神から権能を授かっているので、あなたの肉体が死ぬまで全能の神に仕えるという聖約を交わした証拠として、あなたにバプテスマを施す。主の御霊があなたに注がれるように。また全能の神が、世の初めから備えてくださっているキリストの贖いによって、あなたに永遠の命を授けられるように。」

14
EN: And after Alma had said these words, both Alma and Helam were buried in the water; and they arose and came forth out of the water rejoicing, being filled with the Spirit.
JA: アルマがこれらの言葉を語り終えると、アルマとヘラムはともに水の中に沈んだ。それから二人は立ち上がると、御霊に満たされて、喜びながら水から出て来た。

15
EN: And again, Alma took another, and went forth a second time into the water, and baptized him according to the first, only he did not bury himself again in the water.
JA: さらに、アルマはまた別の一人を連れて、もう一度水の中に入って行くと、最初のときと同じようにバプテスマを施したが、今度は自分自身は水の中に沈まなかった。

16
EN: And after this manner he did baptize every one that went forth to the place of Mormon; and they were in number about two hundred and four souls; yea, and they were baptized in the waters of Mormon, and were filled with the grace of God.
JA: このようにして、彼はモルモンの地にやって来たすべての人にバプテスマを施した。その数は二百四人ほどであった。そして、これらの人々はモルモンの泉でバプテスマを受けると、神の恵みに満たされた。

17
EN: And they were called the church of God, or the church of Christ, from that time forward. And it came to pass that whosoever was baptized by the power and authority of God was added to his church.
JA: そしてそれ以後、彼らは神の教会、すなわちキリストの教会と呼ばれた。また、神の力と権能によってバプテスマを受けた人々はだれでも、神の教会に加えられた。

18
EN: And it came to pass that Alma, having authority from God, ordained priests; even one priest to every fifty of their number did he ordain to preach unto them, and to teach them concerning the things pertaining to the kingdom of God.
JA: そしてアルマは、神から権能を授かっていたので、祭司たちを聖任した。すなわち、彼は五十人ごとに一人の祭司を聖任して、彼らに教えを説き、また神の王国にかかわる事柄について教えられるようにした。

19
EN: And he commanded them that they should teach nothing save it were the things which he had taught, and which had been spoken by the mouth of the holy prophets.
JA: またアルマは祭司たちに、自分が教えたことと、聖なる預言者たちの口を通して述べられたことのほかは、何も教えないように指示した。

20
EN: Yea, even he commanded them that they should preach nothing save it were repentance and faith on the Lord, who had redeemed his people.
JA: まことに、彼は祭司たちに、悔い改めと、御自分の民を贖われた主を信じる信仰のほかは、何も説かないように指示したのである。

21
EN: And he commanded them that there should be no contention one with another, but that they should look forward with one eye, having one faith and one baptism, having their hearts knit together in unity and in love one towards another.
JA: また彼は祭司たちに、決して互いに争うことなく、互いに和合し、愛し合って結ばれた心を持ち、一つの信仰と一つのバプテスマをもって、一つの目で将来を見詰めるようにと指示した。

22
EN: And thus he commanded them to preach. And thus they became the children of God.
JA: 彼はこのように祭司たちに、教えを説くように指示した。このようにして、人々は神の子となった。

23
EN: And he commanded them that they should observe the sabbath day, and keep it holy, and also every day they should give thanks to the Lord their God.
JA: また、アルマは彼らに、安息日を守って聖なる日として保つこと、また毎日主なる自分たちの神に感謝することを指示した。

24
EN: And he also commanded them that the priests whom he had ordained should labor with their own hands for their support.
JA: また、聖任を受けた祭司たちは自分自身の手を使って生活の糧を得るようにすべきであると、アルマは指示した。

25
EN: And there was one day in every week that was set apart that they should gather themselves together to teach the people, and to worship the Lord their God, and also, as often as it was in their power, to assemble themselves together.
JA: さらに、彼らが人々を教え、また主なる自分たちの神を礼拝するために集まる日を週に一日定めること、またほかにもできるかぎりしばしば集まることとした。

26
EN: And the priests were not to depend upon the people for their support; but for their labor they were to receive the grace of God, that they might wax strong in the Spirit, having the knowledge of God, that they might teach with power and authority from God.
JA: そして、祭司たちは生活の糧を人々に頼るべきでなく、自分の労働に対して神の恵みを受けるべきであるとされた。それは、彼らが御霊を受けて強くなり、神の知識を得られるようにするため、また神からの力と権能をもって教えることができるようにするためである。

27
EN: And again Alma commanded that the people of the church should impart of their substance, every one according to that which he had; if he have more abundantly he should impart more abundantly; and of him that had but little, but little should be required; and to him that had not should be given.
JA: アルマはまた、教会の人々が各々自分の持っている分に応じて持ち物を分け与えるように、つまり、ほかの人よりも豊かに持っていれば、ほかの人よりも多く分け与えるべきであり、少ししか持っていない人には少ししか求めず、持っていない人には分け与えるべきであると指示した。

28
EN: And thus they should impart of their substance of their own free will and good desires towards God, and to those priests that stood in need, yea, and to every needy, naked soul.
JA: このように、人々は自分の自由意志と神にかかわる善い望みから、自分の持ち物を、それを必要としている祭司たちと、乏しくて着る物のないすべての人に分け与えなければならなかった。

29
EN: And this he said unto them, having been commanded of God; and they did walk uprightly before God, imparting to one another both temporally and spiritually according to their needs and their wants.
JA: アルマは神から命じられたので、このように彼らに告げた。そして彼らは、各々の必要と入り用に応じて物質的にも霊的にも互いに助け合い、神の前をまっすぐに歩んだ。

30
EN: And now it came to pass that all this was done in Mormon, yea, by the waters of Mormon, in the forest that was near the waters of Mormon; yea, the place of Mormon, the waters of Mormon, the forest of Mormon, how beautiful are they to the eyes of them who there came to the knowledge of their Redeemer; yea, and how blessed are they, for they shall sing to his praise forever.
JA: さて、これはすべてモルモンにおいて、まことにモルモンの泉のそば、つまりモルモンの泉に近い森の中で行われたことである。モルモンの地も、モルモンの泉も、モルモンの森も、自分たちの贖い主を知るようになった人々の目には何と麗しいことか。また、これらの人々は何と祝福されていることか。だから、彼らはとこしえに贖い主を賛美して歌うであろう。

31
EN: And these things were done in the borders of the land, that they might not come to the knowledge of the king.
JA: これらのことは、ノア王に知られることのないように、国の境で行われた。

32
EN: But behold, it came to pass that the king, having discovered a movement among the people, sent his servants to watch them. Therefore on the day that they were assembling themselves together to hear the word of the Lord they were discovered unto the king.
JA: しかし見よ、王は民の中に動きがあるのを知り、召し使いたちを遣わして民を見張らせた。そのため、人々が神の言葉を聞こうとして集まった日に、彼らのことが王に知られてしまった。

33
EN: And now the king said that Alma was stirring up the people to rebellion against him; therefore he sent his army to destroy them.
JA: そこで王は、アルマが民を扇動して自分に対する謀反を起こしていると言って、アルマと彼に従う人々を滅ぼすために、軍隊を派遣した。

34
EN: And it came to pass that Alma and the people of the Lord were apprised of the coming of the king’s army; therefore they took their tents and their families and departed into the wilderness.
JA: そこでアルマと主の民は、王の軍隊が来るという知らせを受けたので、天幕を持ち、家族を連れて荒れ野へ旅立った。

35
EN: And they were in number about four hundred and fifty souls.
JA: その数はおよそ四百五十人であった。
