Ether 11 / エテル書 11

[Summary / 要約]
EN: Wars, dissensions, and wickedness dominate Jaredite life—Prophets predict the utter destruction of the Jaredites unless they repent—The people reject the words of the prophets.
JA: 戦争、不和、悪事がヤレド人の生活を支配する。預言者たち、悔い改めなければヤレド人が完全に滅びることを預言する。民は預言者たちの言葉を拒む。

1
EN: And there came also in the days of Com many prophets, and prophesied of the destruction of that great people except they should repent, and turn unto the Lord, and forsake their murders and wickedness.
JA: コムの時代にまた多くの預言者が来て、この大いなる民は、悔い改めて主に立ち返り、殺人と悪事を捨てなければ滅びると預言した。

2
EN: And it came to pass that the prophets were rejected by the people, and they fled unto Com for protection, for the people sought to destroy them.
JA: さて、預言者たちは民に拒まれ、民に殺されそうになったため、保護を求めてコムのもとに逃げた。

3
EN: And they prophesied unto Com many things; and he was blessed in all the remainder of his days.
JA: そして彼らはコムに多くのことを預言し、コムは残りの全生涯にわたって祝福を受けた。

4
EN: And he lived to a good old age, and begat Shiblom; and Shiblom reigned in his stead. And the brother of Shiblom rebelled against him, and there began to be an exceedingly great war in all the land.
JA: そして彼は高齢になるまで生き長らえ、シブロムをもうけた。そして、シブロムが彼に代わって統治した。ところが、シブロムの兄弟が彼に背き、全地で非常に大きな戦争が始まった。

5
EN: And it came to pass that the brother of Shiblom caused that all the prophets who prophesied of the destruction of the people should be put to death;
JA: そして、シブロムの兄弟は民の滅亡を預言したすべての預言者を殺させた。

6
EN: And there was great calamity in all the land, for they had testified that a great curse should come upon the land, and also upon the people, and that there should be a great destruction among them, such an one as never had been upon the face of the earth, and their bones should become as heaps of earth upon the face of the land except they should repent of their wickedness.
JA: すると、全地にひどい災いが生じた。かつて預言者たちが、もしも民が悪事を悔い改めなければ、ひどいのろいが地と民に下り、地の面にかつてなかったほどのひどい滅亡が彼らの中にあり、彼らの骨は土の山のように地の面に積み上げられると証していた。

7
EN: And they hearkened not unto the voice of the Lord, because of their wicked combinations; wherefore, there began to be wars and contentions in all the land, and also many famines and pestilences, insomuch that there was a great destruction, such an one as never had been known upon the face of the earth; and all this came to pass in the days of Shiblom.
JA: ところが民は邪悪な結社があったために、主の声に聞き従わなかった。そのために、全地で戦争と争いが始まり、また多くの飢饉と疫病が起こって、地の面にこれまでまったく知られていなかったほどのひどい滅亡が生じた。これはすべて、シブロムの時代に起こったことである。

8
EN: And the people began to repent of their iniquity; and inasmuch as they did the Lord did have mercy on them.
JA: すると民は自分たちの罪悪を悔い改め始めた。そして、彼らが悔い改めたので、主は彼らに憐れみをかけられた。

9
EN: And it came to pass that Shiblom was slain, and Seth was brought into captivity, and did dwell in captivity all his days.
JA: さて、シブロムは殺され、セツは囚われの身に陥って、生涯囚われの状態で過ごした。

10
EN: And it came to pass that Ahah, his son, did obtain the kingdom; and he did reign over the people all his days. And he did do all manner of iniquity in his days, by which he did cause the shedding of much blood; and few were his days.
JA: そして、彼の息子エーハは王位を得て、生涯民を治めた。しかし彼は生涯あらゆる罪悪を行い、多くの血を流したので、彼の一生は短かった。

11
EN: And Ethem, being a descendant of Ahah, did obtain the kingdom; and he also did do that which was wicked in his days.
JA: また、イーサムはエーハの子孫であり、王位を得たが、彼もまた生涯邪悪なことを行った。

12
EN: And it came to pass that in the days of Ethem there came many prophets, and prophesied again unto the people; yea, they did prophesy that the Lord would utterly destroy them from off the face of the earth except they repented of their iniquities.
JA: そして、イーサムの時代に多くの預言者が来て、民に再び預言をした。預言者たちは、民が悔い改めなければ、主は地の面から民をことごとく滅ぼしてしまわれると預言した。

13
EN: And it came to pass that the people hardened their hearts, and would not hearken unto their words; and the prophets mourned and withdrew from among the people.
JA: さて、民は心をかたくなにして、預言者たちの言葉に聞き従おうとしなかった。そこで預言者たちは、悲しみながら民の中から去って行った。

14
EN: And it came to pass that Ethem did execute judgment in wickedness all his days; and he begat Moron. And it came to pass that Moron did reign in his stead; and Moron did that which was wicked before the Lord.
JA: さて、イーサムは生涯悪をもって裁きを行った。そして彼はモロンをもうけた。その後、モロンが彼に代わって統治し、主の前に邪悪なことを行った。

15
EN: And it came to pass that there arose a rebellion among the people, because of that secret combination which was built up to get power and gain; and there arose a mighty man among them in iniquity, and gave battle unto Moron, in which he did overthrow the half of the kingdom; and he did maintain the half of the kingdom for many years.
JA: さて、民の中に謀反が起こった。それは権力と利益を得るために築かれたあの秘密結社のために生じたものである。また民の中に、罪悪に勢いのある一人の男が現れ、モロンと戦って、その戦いで王国の半分を打ち破った。そして、彼は長年の間その王国の半分を治めた。

16
EN: And it came to pass that Moron did overthrow him, and did obtain the kingdom again.
JA: さて、モロンはこの男を倒して、再び王位を取り戻した。

17
EN: And it came to pass that there arose another mighty man; and he was a descendant of the brother of Jared.
JA: そして、また別の勢いのある男が現れた。彼はヤレドの兄弟の子孫であった。

18
EN: And it came to pass that he did overthrow Moron and obtain the kingdom; wherefore, Moron dwelt in captivity all the remainder of his days; and he begat Coriantor.
JA: そして、彼はモロンを打ち破って、王位を得た。そのために、モロンは囚われの身で余生を送り、コリアントルをもうけた。

19
EN: And it came to pass that Coriantor dwelt in captivity all his days.
JA: そして、コリアントルも囚われの身で生涯を送った。

20
EN: And in the days of Coriantor there also came many prophets, and prophesied of great and marvelous things, and cried repentance unto the people, and except they should repent the Lord God would execute judgment against them to their utter destruction;
JA: また、コリアントルの時代に多くの預言者が来て、大いなる驚くべきことを預言し、民に悔い改めを叫んで、もしも悔い改めなければ、主なる神が彼らに対して裁きを行って、彼らを完全に滅ぼされると告げた。

21
EN: And that the Lord God would send or bring forth another people to possess the land, by his power, after the manner by which he brought their fathers.
JA: また主なる神が、かつてこの民の先祖を導いたように御自分の力によって別の民を送り、いや、別の民を導いてこの地を所有させられると、預言者たちは告げた。

22
EN: And they did reject all the words of the prophets, because of their secret society and wicked abominations.
JA: しかし、民は彼らの秘密結社と邪悪な忌まわしい行いのために、預言者たちの言葉をことごとく拒んだ。

23
EN: And it came to pass that Coriantor begat Ether, and he died, having dwelt in captivity all his days.
JA: さて、コリアントルはエテルをもうけ、囚われの身で生涯を過ごして死んだ。
