Helaman 1 / ヒラマン書 1

[Intro / 序文]
EN: An account of the Nephites. Their wars and contentions, and their dissensions. And also the prophecies of many holy prophets, before the coming of Christ, according to the records of Helaman, who was the son of Helaman, and also according to the records of his sons, even down to the coming of Christ. And also many of the Lamanites are converted. An account of their conversion. An account of the righteousness of the Lamanites, and the wickedness and abominations of the Nephites, according to the record of Helaman and his sons, even down to the coming of Christ, which is called the book of Helaman, and so forth.
JA: ニーファイ人についての話。彼らの戦争と争いと、彼らの不和についての話。キリストの来臨前の、多くの聖なる預言者たちの預言についての話。ヒラマンの息子であるヒラマンの記録、および彼の息子たちの記録によるもので、キリストの来臨の時にまで至る。また、多くのレーマン人が改宗する。彼らの改宗についての記事。レーマン人の義、およびニーファイ人の悪事と忌まわしい行いについての記事。ヒラマンと彼の息子たちの記録によるもので、キリストの来臨の時にまで至る。この記録はヒラマン書と呼ばれる。

[Summary / 要約]
EN: Pahoran the second becomes chief judge and is murdered by Kishkumen—Pacumeni fills the judgment seat—Coriantumr leads the Lamanite armies, takes Zarahemla, and slays Pacumeni—Moronihah defeats the Lamanites and retakes Zarahemla, and Coriantumr is slain. About 52–50 B.C.
JA: パホーラン二世、大さばきつかさになり、キシクメンに殺される。パクメナイ、さばきつかさの職に就く。コリアンタマー、レーマン人の軍隊を率いてゼラヘムラを奪い、パクメナイを殺す。モロナイハ、レーマン人を破り、ゼラヘムラを取り返す。コリアンタマー、殺される。紀元前約五十二年から五十年に至る。

1
EN: And now behold, it came to pass in the commencement of the fortieth year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi, there began to be a serious difficulty among the people of the Nephites.
JA: さて見よ、ニーファイの民のさばきつかさの統治第四十年の初めに、ニーファイ人の民の中に一つの重大な問題が起こった。

2
EN: For behold, Pahoran had died, and gone the way of all the earth; therefore there began to be a serious contention concerning who should have the judgment-seat among the brethren, who were the sons of Pahoran.
JA: 見よ、パホーランが死んで、世のすべての人の行く道を行ってしまったので、だれがさばきつかさの職に就くべきかについて、パホーランの息子たちである兄弟の中で深刻な争いが起こったからである。

3
EN: Now these are their names who did contend for the judgment-seat, who did also cause the people to contend: Pahoran, Paanchi, and Pacumeni.
JA: さばきつかさの職のために争って、民をも争わせたこの兄弟たちの名は、パホーラン、パアンカイ、パクメナイという。

4
EN: Now these are not all the sons of Pahoran (for he had many), but these are they who did contend for the judgment-seat; therefore, they did cause three divisions among the people.
JA: パホーランの息子はこの三人だけではない。（彼には多くの息子がいた。）しかし、さばきつかさの職のために争ったのはこの三人であり、彼らは民を三つの集団に分裂させてしまった。

5
EN: Nevertheless, it came to pass that Pahoran was appointed by the voice of the people to be chief judge and a governor over the people of Nephi.
JA: それでも、パホーランが民の声によって大さばきつかさとなり、ニーファイの民を治める総督となるように任命された。

6
EN: And it came to pass that Pacumeni, when he saw that he could not obtain the judgment-seat, he did unite with the voice of the people.
JA: そしてパクメナイは、自分がさばきつかさの職を得られないことを知ると、民の声に同意した。

7
EN: But behold, Paanchi, and that part of the people that were desirous that he should be their governor, was exceedingly wroth; therefore, he was about to flatter away those people to rise up in rebellion against their brethren.
JA: しかし見よ、パアンカイと、彼が総督になることを願った民の一部の者たちは、非常に怒った。そのため彼は、その人々にへつらって、同胞に対して謀反を起こさせようとした。

8
EN: And it came to pass as he was about to do this, behold, he was taken, and was tried according to the voice of the people, and condemned unto death; for he had raised up in rebellion and sought to destroy the liberty of the people.
JA: そして彼は、まさにそれを実行しようとしたときに、見よ、捕らえられ、民の声によって裁かれ、死刑を宣告された。彼が謀反を起こし、民の自由を損なおうとしたからである。

9
EN: Now when those people who were desirous that he should be their governor saw that he was condemned unto death, therefore they were angry, and behold, they sent forth one Kishkumen, even to the judgment-seat of Pahoran, and murdered Pahoran as he sat upon the judgment-seat.
JA: ところが、彼が総督になることを願った者たちは、彼に死刑が宣告されたことを知って怒った。そして見よ、彼らは、キシクメンという者をさばきつかさの職にあるパホーランのもとに遣わし、さばきつかさの席に着いているパホーランを殺した。

10
EN: And he was pursued by the servants of Pahoran; but behold, so speedy was the flight of Kishkumen that no man could overtake him.
JA: パホーランの従者たちはキシクメンを追いかけたが、見よ、キシクメンの逃げ足が非常に速かったので、だれも彼に追いつけなかった。

11
EN: And he went unto those that sent him, and they all entered into a covenant, yea, swearing by their everlasting Maker, that they would tell no man that Kishkumen had murdered Pahoran.
JA: そして、彼は自分を行かせた者たちのところに帰り、彼らは全員誓いを立てた。すなわち、彼らはキシクメンがパホーランを殺したことをだれにも話さないと、自分たちの永遠の造り主にかけて誓ったのである。

12
EN: Therefore, Kishkumen was not known among the people of Nephi, for he was in disguise at the time that he murdered Pahoran. And Kishkumen and his band, who had covenanted with him, did mingle themselves among the people, in a manner that they all could not be found; but as many as were found were condemned unto death.
JA: そのためキシクメンは、パホーランを殺したときに姿を変えていたので、ニーファイの民に知られることはなかった。そしてキシクメンも、彼と誓った仲間も、見つかることのないように民の中に交じっていたが、見つかった者は皆、死刑を宣告された。

13
EN: And now behold, Pacumeni was appointed, according to the voice of the people, to be a chief judge and a governor over the people, to reign in the stead of his brother Pahoran; and it was according to his right. And all this was done in the fortieth year of the reign of the judges; and it had an end.
JA: さて見よ、パクメナイが民の声によって大さばきつかさとなり、民の総督となるように任命され、彼の兄弟パホーランに代わって治めることになった。それは彼の権利にかなっていた。これはすべてさばきつかさの統治第四十年にあったことであり、この年は終わった。

14
EN: And it came to pass in the forty and first year of the reign of the judges, that the Lamanites had gathered together an innumerable army of men, and armed them with swords, and with cimeters and with bows, and with arrows, and with head-plates, and with breastplates, and with all manner of shields of every kind.
JA: さて、さばきつかさの統治第四十一年に、レーマン人はおびただしい数の兵を集めて、剣と三日月刀、弓、矢、かぶと、胸当て、それにあらゆる盾で武装させていた。

15
EN: And they came down again that they might pitch battle against the Nephites. And they were led by a man whose name was Coriantumr; and he was a descendant of Zarahemla; and he was a dissenter from among the Nephites; and he was a large and a mighty man.
JA: そして彼らは、ニーファイ人と戦うためにまたもややって来た。彼らはコリアンタマーという名の男に率いられていた。この男はゼラヘムラの子孫であり、ニーファイ人からの離反者であって、大きな強い男であった。

16
EN: Therefore, the king of the Lamanites, whose name was Tubaloth, who was the son of Ammoron, supposing that Coriantumr, being a mighty man, could stand against the Nephites, with his strength and also with his great wisdom, insomuch that by sending him forth he should gain power over the Nephites—
JA: それで、アモロンの息子で名をツバロスというレーマン人の王は、コリアンタマーが強い男であり、彼の力と深い知恵でニーファイ人に立ち向かえると思ったので、彼を行かせてニーファイ人を支配する権力を得ようとした。

17
EN: Therefore he did stir them up to anger, and he did gather together his armies, and he did appoint Coriantumr to be their leader, and did cause that they should march down to the land of Zarahemla to battle against the Nephites.
JA: そこでツバロスは、レーマン人を扇動して怒らせ、自分の軍隊を集め、コリアンタマーを軍隊の指揮官に任命して、ニーファイ人と戦うために彼らをゼラヘムラの地へ進軍させた。

18
EN: And it came to pass that because of so much contention and so much difficulty in the government, that they had not kept sufficient guards in the land of Zarahemla; for they had supposed that the Lamanites durst not come into the heart of their lands to attack that great city Zarahemla.
JA: さて、ニーファイ人は、政府内に多くの争いと多くの問題があったので、ゼラヘムラの地に十分な見張りの兵を配置していなかった。彼らはレーマン人があえて自分たちの地の中央部に入って来て、この大きな町ゼラヘムラを攻撃することはないと思っていたからである。

19
EN: But it came to pass that Coriantumr did march forth at the head of his numerous host, and came upon the inhabitants of the city, and their march was with such exceedingly great speed that there was no time for the Nephites to gather together their armies.
JA: ところが、コリアンタマーは大軍を率いて進み、その町に住む者を襲ったのである。しかも、彼らの進軍が非常に速かったので、ニーファイ人は軍隊を集める暇がなかった。

20
EN: Therefore Coriantumr did cut down the watch by the entrance of the city, and did march forth with his whole army into the city, and they did slay every one who did oppose them, insomuch that they did take possession of the whole city.
JA: そのためコリアンタマーは、町の入り口の近くで警備兵を切り倒し、全軍を率いて町に入った。そして、彼らは手向かう者をすべて殺し、町全体を占領した。

21
EN: And it came to pass that Pacumeni, who was the chief judge, did flee before Coriantumr, even to the walls of the city. And it came to pass that Coriantumr did smite him against the wall, insomuch that he died. And thus ended the days of Pacumeni.
JA: さて、大さばきつかさであったパクメナイは、コリアンタマーから逃れて町の城壁の所まで行った。しかし、そこで城壁に寄りかかった状態でコリアンタマーに討たれ、死んだ。このようにして、パクメナイの生涯は終わった。

22
EN: And now when Coriantumr saw that he was in possession of the city of Zarahemla, and saw that the Nephites had fled before them, and were slain, and were taken, and were cast into prison, and that he had obtained the possession of the strongest hold in all the land, his heart took courage insomuch that he was about to go forth against all the land.
JA: コリアンタマーは、ゼラヘムラの町が手に入ったのを見て、またニーファイ人がレーマン人の前から逃げ出し、殺され、捕らえられ、牢に入れられなどして、自分が全地で最も堅固なとりでの占領を終えたのを見て、心が奮い立ち、全地に向かって出て行こうとした。

23
EN: And now he did not tarry in the land of Zarahemla, but he did march forth with a large army, even towards the city of Bountiful; for it was his determination to go forth and cut his way through with the sword, that he might obtain the north parts of the land.
JA: そして、彼はゼラヘムラの地に長居せず、大軍を伴ってバウンティフルの町に向かって進軍した。それは、進んで行って剣で道を切り開き、国の北部も手に入れようと決意していたからである。

24
EN: And, supposing that their greatest strength was in the center of the land, therefore he did march forth, giving them no time to assemble themselves together save it were in small bodies; and in this manner they did fall upon them and cut them down to the earth.
JA: また彼は、ニーファイ人の軍隊の主力が国の中央部にいると思っていたので、ニーファイ人が幾つかの小さな軍隊に集まる以外に集まる暇のないように進軍した。このようにして、彼らはニーファイ人を攻め、地に切り倒したのであった。

25
EN: But behold, this march of Coriantumr through the center of the land gave Moronihah great advantage over them, notwithstanding the greatness of the number of the Nephites who were slain.
JA: しかし見よ、国の中央部を通ったこのコリアンタマーの進軍は、殺されたニーファイ人がおびただしい数に上ったにもかかわらず、彼らに対してモロナイハを非常に有利な立場に置くことになった。

26
EN: For behold, Moronihah had supposed that the Lamanites durst not come into the center of the land, but that they would attack the cities round about in the borders as they had hitherto done; therefore Moronihah had caused that their strong armies should maintain those parts round about by the borders.
JA: 見よ、モロナイハは、レーマン人があえて国の中央部に入って来ることはなく、これまで行ってきたように、境の地の方々の町を攻撃して来るであろうと思い、ニーファイ人の強い軍隊に境の地の方々を守らせていたからである。

27
EN: But behold, the Lamanites were not frightened according to his desire, but they had come into the center of the land, and had taken the capital city which was the city of Zarahemla, and were marching through the most capital parts of the land, slaying the people with a great slaughter, both men, women, and children, taking possession of many cities and of many strongholds.
JA: しかし見よ、レーマン人は彼の願ったようには恐れず、国の中央部に入って来て首府であるゼラヘムラの町を奪い、国の最も重要な地方を経由して進みながら、男、女、子供の区別なく民を大勢殺し、多くの町と多くのとりでを占領した。

28
EN: But when Moronihah had discovered this, he immediately sent forth Lehi with an army round about to head them before they should come to the land Bountiful.
JA: モロナイハはこれを知ると、彼らがバウンティフルの地へ達する前に遠回りして彼らの進路を断つため、すぐにリーハイを軍隊とともに派遣した。

29
EN: And thus he did; and he did head them before they came to the land Bountiful, and gave unto them battle, insomuch that they began to retreat back towards the land of Zarahemla.
JA: そして、リーハイはそのように行った。彼はレーマン人がバウンティフルの地に達する前に、彼らの進路を断って攻撃したので、彼らはゼラヘムラの地へ向かって退却し始めた。

30
EN: And it came to pass that Moronihah did head them in their retreat, and did give unto them battle, insomuch that it became an exceedingly bloody battle; yea, many were slain, and among the number who were slain Coriantumr was also found.
JA: そこでモロナイハも、退却中の彼らの退路を断って攻撃した。そのため、非常に血なまぐさい戦いになった。まことに、多くの者が殺され、殺された者たちの中にコリアンタマーもいた。

31
EN: And now, behold, the Lamanites could not retreat either way, neither on the north, nor on the south, nor on the east, nor on the west, for they were surrounded on every hand by the Nephites.
JA: さて見よ、レーマン人はあらゆる方向からニーファイ人に取り囲まれたので、北にも、南にも、東にも、西にも、どの方向にも退却できなかった。

32
EN: And thus had Coriantumr plunged the Lamanites into the midst of the Nephites, insomuch that they were in the power of the Nephites, and he himself was slain, and the Lamanites did yield themselves into the hands of the Nephites.
JA: このように、コリアンタマーがレーマン人をニーファイ人のただ中へ突入させたので、彼らはニーファイ人の手中に落ちて、コリアンタマー自身も殺されてしまった。そして、レーマン人はニーファイ人に降伏した。

33
EN: And it came to pass that Moronihah took possession of the city of Zarahemla again, and caused that the Lamanites who had been taken prisoners should depart out of the land in peace.
JA: そこでモロナイハは、ゼラヘムラの町を取り返し、捕虜になったレーマン人を安らかに国外へ去らせた。

34
EN: And thus ended the forty and first year of the reign of the judges.
JA: このようにして、さばきつかさの統治第四十一年が終わった。
